Add blog post on Java Regular Expressions (#1120)
oktadev/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-03-30-java-regex.md

---
layout: blog_post
title: "A Quick Guide to Java Regular Expressions"
author: karl-hughes
by: contractor
communities: [java]
description: ""
tags: []
tweets:
- ""
- ""
- ""
image:
type: awareness
---

Whether you're coding, using a search engine, searching and replacing text in text editor, or using the command-line utilities `grep`, `sed`, and `awk` in Linux, you're using regular expressions (also known as "regex" or "regexp"). Yes, they're everywhere.

> A regular expression is a sequence of characters used to describe a text pattern. Working with regular expressions is rarelydescribed as fun, but they are useful to help solve various problems while coding a feature, usually to find and replace operations with strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A regular expression is a sequence of characters used to describe a text pattern. Working with regular expressions is rarely described as fun, but they are useful to help solve various problems while coding a feature, usually to find and replace operations with strings.
```
```suggestion
A regular expression is a sequence of characters used to describe a text pattern. Working with regular expressions is rarely described as fun, but they are useful for various problems while coding a feature, such as finding and replacing operations with strings.
```
add space. streamline long sentence.

When coding a solution using regular expressions, you typically use the built-in libraries provided by the programming language you're using. Java is no exception. It includes support for regular expressions using classes in the `java.util.regex` package.

> In this article, you'll learn how to use regular expressions to define a pattern for searching or manipulating strings in Java. You can find [the GitHub repository for the code in this article here](https://github.com/karllhughes/RegexExamples).

Reviewer: Please move code to OktaDev and update to an OktaDev repo URL.
